src/pages/Creating a Budget/index.md, before:

---
path: "/budget"
title: "Creating a Budget"
description: This post is related to the gatsbyjs
date: '2019-12-07'
---
**Creating a budget** is the first step required when getting finances in order. In this article, I'll outline the steps that I took in this process and highlight the importance of a budget in your financial strategy.

## Figure out how much you're bringing in
Take a look at your paystubs to how much money your family is bringing it each month. Make sure you're looking at your (and your spouse, if married) net pay, as this accounts for expenses like taxes and health insurance costs that you should not take into account when determining how much your bringing home each month.

## Figure out how much you're spending on essentials
This is the same exercise you do when determining [how much you need for your emergency fund](). Don't forget about to include all essentials you need, including bills that are not monthly (such as home/auto insurance).

## Figure out what's important to you
Giving/charity. Entertainment.

[50 - 30 - 20 Budget](https://www.nerdwallet.com/blog/finance/nerdwallet-budget-calculator/)

## Track your budget
I like to use a tool for tracking my budget. Some of the most popular choices are [Personal Capital](), [Mint](), [Every Dollar](https://www.everydollar.com/) and [You Need A Budget](https://www.youneedabudget.com/).

I personally use Personal Capital. It is free to use and offers a ton of features outside of just budget tracking. It creates a central place to keep track of all your bank accounts, retirement accounts, loans, investing portfolio and more. It also has a pretty nice Retirement Planner built it. If you would like to try it out, use [this referral link]() and we both get a $20 Amazon gift card! (see [disclosure]() about my use of affiliate links)

Keep it automated.

https://share.personalcapital.com/x/Zms7b8
https://share.personalcapital.com/x/XPaWu1
"Per FTC guidelines, my blog may be compensated by companies mentioned through affiliate programs. Any references to third party products are subject to change without notice. Please do the appropriate research before participating in any third party offers"

Some links in this website are affiliate links. This means whenever you click on one of these links, I get paid some money and you won't notice anything.

Commit message:

add budget blog post; add photo info to frontmatter

src/pages/Creating a Budget/index.md, after:

---
path: "/budget"
title: "Creating a Budget"
description: This post is related to the gatsbyjs
date: '2019-12-07'
image: 'budget'
imageCredit: 'https://www.flickr.com/photos/22887612@N08/2199605103/'
imageAuthor: 'weddingssc1'
---
**Creating a budget** is the first step required when getting finances in order. In this article, I'll outline the steps that I took in this process and highlight the importance of a budget in your financial strategy.

## Figure out how much you're bringing in
Take a look at your paystubs to how much money your family is bringing it each month. Make sure you're looking at your (and your spouse, if married) net pay, as this accounts for expenses like taxes and health insurance costs that you should not take into account when determining how much your bringing home each month.

## Figure out how much you're spending on essentials
This is the same exercise you do when determining [how much you need for your emergency fund](https://moneyfornoobs.com/emergencyFund). Don't forget about to include all essentials you need, including bills that are not monthly (such as home/auto insurance).

A good target to aim for that many people recommend is the [50 - 30 - 20 Budget](https://www.nerdwallet.com/blog/finance/nerdwallet-budget-calculator/). This means you spend roughly 50% on necessities (groceries, food), 30% on whatever you want (entertainment, hobbies) and 20% in your savings and paying off extra on debt. 

To me, this budgeting strategy seems unrealistic for a lot of people. For many, 50% may be way too low for necessities. If this is the case, There are a few strategies that you can do to save more of your money, such as shopping around for lower insurance quotes. Savin 20% of your income each month and be near impossible for some. It's important to adjust this based on your current financial situation as there's no one-size-fits all budgeting solution that works for everyone.

When determining how much to spend on your wants, and where to spend it, you need to take some time to figure out what is most important in your life. If you love to travel, you may need to cut out something else to ensure you have enough for your goals. I would encourage you to talk with your family and determine everyone's priorities. You may need to make some difficult decisions like eating out once a week instead of every day for lunch. Think of practical ways that you can save money for what you really want.

This is also where I like to start thinking about giving your money to help others live a better life. This isn't included in the 50 - 30 -20 rule so it takes some work to figure out what to cut, but I think it is one of the most important things you can do with your money. Take some time to think about things you're passionate about and ways you can donate your time to make the world a better place. This may take some sacrifices like cutting down on your daily coffee or happy hour spending, but it will be well worth it for the people's lives that are changing.

## Track your budget
An important step in starting a budget is to track *all* of your spending. You'll probably be surprised at how much you're spending on things like eating out and online subscriptions. This is not necessarily a bad thing if this is what you enjoy, just be sure that you're aware of how much money is going where.

I like to use a tool for tracking my budget. This makes it so that you don't need to manually track everything in a spreadsheet. Some of the most popular budgeting apps are [Personal Capital](), [Mint](), [Every Dollar](https://www.everydollar.com/) and [You Need A Budget](https://www.youneedabudget.com/).

I personally use Personal Capital. It is free to use and offers a ton of features outside of just budget tracking. It creates a central place to keep track of all your bank accounts, retirement accounts, loans, investing portfolio and more. It also has a pretty nice retirement planner built in. If you would like to try it out, use [this referral link]() and we both get a $20 Amazon gift card!

## Wrapping Up
I want to offer a warning when putting your budget together: Don't compare yourself to others. It's called personal finance because it's personal. Everyone is in a different financial situation with different goals and priorities.

The most important thing when creating a budget is to know where your money is going. After you've figured this out, set up a plan that works with your personal financial situation and goals and stick to it.
