src/pages/retirement/index.md, before:

---
path: "/retirement"
title: "What is a 401(k)?"
description: This post is related to the gatsbyjs
date: '2019-05-21'
---
An **emergency fund** is just the money you have set aside that you only use in case of emergency (i.e. home/car repairs, medical emergency, unexpected job loss). I prioritized building my emergency fund up before doing anything else with my money. Paying off student loans faster or contributing more to retirement accounts are great financial strategies but I put having an emergency fund secured above all.

## How Much to Keep Aside for Emergencies

To start, my goal was to save at least a couple thousand dollars for emergencies. After that, I focused on building up to a few months worth of expenses. Most people recommend that you should keep 3 - 6 months of cash in an accessible place (most likely a savings account with your bank).

Determining exactly how much 3 - 6 months worth of cash changes on the person and will require some homework. You need to sit down and figure out how much you spend on the bare necessities each month. Don't count your monthly Spotify or Netflix fees as these subscriptions can be canceled in case of an emergency, but don't forget things like internet that will be necessary if searching for a new job.

The amount that I determined was higher than I expected, but it provides me with some peace of mind knowing that I have enough funds secured in case of an emergency.

## Where to Keep Your Emergency Fund

I wanted to make sure that my emergency fund was in an *easily accessible* spot, such as a savings account. I need to have immediate access to my money at any given time. This is called [liquid](https://www.investopedia.com/terms/l/liquidity.asp) funds. This money can be taken out at any time and be used for spending immdiately.

I use my bank's savings account for my emergency funds. I keep 6 months of cash in there at all times in case of an emergency, and hopefully I'll never need to touch it. The interest that my savings account provides just adds extra padding to my emergency account.

## Choosing a Bank

Most people keep their money with big, brick-and-mortar banks, but there are many online-only banking options available. For long-term savings accounts, such as emergency accounts, I decided to look towards high-interest, online banks. The bigger banks usually don't offer nearly as much growth on savings. For example, before switching banks, I was using Chase who offers 0.01% interest. This wasn't even enough to keep up with inflation, so I was actually losing money.

I was looking for any bank that offers at least 2% APY. This should be pretty standard for most high-interest savings account with online banks.

Most importantly, I made sure that my new bank was FDIC-insured. This means that, in the case that the bank collapses, the federal government pays will cover my money (up to $250,000).

Other things to keep in mind with online banks are to look at monthly fees. Most banks don't have these or will waive them if you opt into their paperless options for quarterly statements, but some have these fees that may not me initially obvious. Also be sure to check if the savings account has a minimum account balance that you'll need to meet.

## Congratulations

After I saved the amount that I was aiming for in my emergency account, I gave myself a big pat on the back. Because now I'm all done. I (hopefully) won't ever touch these funds and I'll just let it sit there gaining some nice interest.

Commit message:

add attribution to blog image; add online bank examples

src/pages/retirement/index.md, after:

---
path: "/retirement"
title: "What is a 401(k)?"
description: This post is related to the gatsbyjs
date: '2019-05-21'
---
An **emergency fund** is just the money you have set aside that you only use in case of emergency (i.e. home/car repairs, medical emergency, unexpected job loss). I prioritized building my emergency fund up before doing anything else with my money. Paying off student loans faster or contributing more to retirement accounts are great financial strategies but I put having an emergency fund secured above all.

## How Much to Keep Aside for Emergencies

To start, my goal was to save at least a couple thousand dollars for emergencies. After that, I focused on building up to a few months worth of expenses. Most people recommend that you should keep 3 - 6 months of cash in an accessible place (most likely a savings account with your bank).

Determining exactly how much 3 - 6 months worth of cash changes on the person and will require some homework. You need to sit down and figure out how much you spend on the bare necessities each month. Don't count your monthly Spotify or Netflix fees as these subscriptions can be canceled in case of an emergency, but don't forget things like internet that will be necessary if searching for a new job.

The amount that I determined was higher than I expected, but it provides me with some peace of mind knowing that I have enough funds secured in case of an emergency.

## Where to Keep Your Emergency Fund

I wanted to make sure that my emergency fund was in an *easily accessible* spot, such as a savings account. I need to have immediate access to my money at any given time. This is called [liquid](https://www.investopedia.com/terms/l/liquidity.asp) funds. This money can be taken out at any time and be used for spending immdiately.

I use my bank's savings account for my emergency funds. I keep 6 months of cash in there at all times in case of an emergency, and hopefully I'll never need to touch it. The interest that my savings account provides just adds extra padding to my emergency account.

## Choosing a Bank

Most people keep their money with big, brick-and-mortar banks, but there are many online-only banking options available. For long-term savings accounts, such as emergency accounts, I decided to look towards high-interest, online banks. The bigger banks usually don't offer nearly as much growth on savings. For example, before switching banks, I was using Chase who offers 0.01% interest. This wasn't even enough to keep up with inflation, so I was actually losing money.

I was looking for any bank that offers at least 2% APY. This should be pretty standard for most high-interest savings account with online banks. Examples include [Ally](https://www.ally.com/), [Discover](https://www.discover.com/online-banking/savings-account/) and [Marcus by Goldman Sachs](https://www.marcus.com/us/en)

Most importantly, I made sure that my new bank was FDIC-insured. This means that, in the case that the bank collapses, the federal government pays will cover my money (up to $250,000).

Other things to keep in mind with online banks are to look at monthly fees. Most banks don't have these or will waive them if you opt into their paperless options for quarterly statements, but some have these fees that may not me initially obvious. Also be sure to check if the savings account has a minimum account balance that you'll need to meet.

## Congratulations

After I saved the amount that I was aiming for in my emergency account, I gave myself a big pat on the back. Because now I'm all done. I (hopefully) won't ever touch these funds and I'll just let it sit there gaining some nice interest.
